# sharing-github
Fraud Classification Project
This report provides an analysis of credit card’s transaction during the account usage process. The primary aim was to examine the best supervised fraud model to detect credit card transaction fraud and denying as few transactions as possible. This can be achieved by bringing together features of credit card transaction information, such as the amount, zip code, state, card number, merchant number, transaction type and merchant description. This information can go through the well-trained model that finds the patterns and rules of fraud transactions so that it can detect as many fraudulent transactions as possible while denying as few non-fraudulent transactions as possible and set a score cutoff that will divert records above the cutoff.
Models of analytics include logistic regression, neural network, boosted trees(XGBoost) and random forest. Methods include data cleaning, variable creation, filter and wrapper. Calculations include univariate Kolmogorov-Smirnov score and model performance measure (e.g. FDR). More details about methods used can be found in the feature selection section. Specific details about models and calculations can be found in the model algorithms and results section.
The final best model we chose to analyze is RandomForestClassifier with 150 trees and 20 max depths. The dataset is splitted into three parts including training, testing and out-of-time. The final chosen model achieved 79.6% FDR at 3% on the out-of-time data. The final performance tables illustrate that the average results of 3% FDR rate and KS value for each dataset are in a relatively good range. We also illustrated the fraud savings calculation with recommended cutoff scores and two detailed plots for a card number and a merchant number.
